[docs] usecase: opentelemetry (#3439)
feldera/feldera: docs/use_cases/otel/insights.md

> # Insights

Reviewer: The insights are what the human has. I would call this section "data processing" or "extracting high-level metrics"

In the previous step, we preprocessed the data to enhance its usability. Next, we want to generate valuable insights from it.

### P95 Latency

P95 latency is a common statistical measure used for network performance analysis. It means that 95% of requests were served faster than this value, while 5% took longer than this.

#### Step 1: Define a Tumbling Window

To compute P95 latency over time, we first define a **10-second tumbling window** on the `spans` view.

```sql

> CREATE LOCAL VIEW spans_tumble_10s AS

Reviewer: explain that this is a continuation of the previous SQL program for feldera.

SELECT * FROM TABLE(
	TUMBLE(
	TABLE spans,
	DESCRIPTOR(eventTime),
	INTERVAL '10' SECOND
	)
);
```

This groups spans into non-overlapping 10-second time windows.

#### Step 2: Define a Rust UDF for P95 Calculation

Here we leverage Feldera's support for Rust [UDFs](https://docs.feldera.com/sql/udf) to implement a function that given an array of integers, returns the 95th percentile value from it.

##### SQL Definition for P95 Rust UDF

```sql
-- UDF to calculate p95 value given an integer array
CREATE FUNCTION p95(x BIGINT ARRAY NOT NULL) RETURNS BIGINT;
```

##### Rust Implementation of P95

```rust

> pub fn p95(x: Vec<Option<i64>>) -> Result<Option<i64>, Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {

Reviewer: SQL has an PERCENTILE function, but we don't support it yet, we should. It may also be a bit more efficient.
But for now you can say that PERCENTILE is not yet implemented so you do it in Rust.
This seems to be PERCENTILE_CONT you are implementing.
(There is also a PERCENTILE_DISC)

	window_start as 'time'
FROM spans_tumble_10s
WHERE
	parentSpanId = '' -- Only consider top-level requests
GROUP BY
	window_start;
```

This filters only the top level traces and aggregates `elapsedTimeMillis` values into an array and calls the `p95` function.

### Throughput

Throughput measures the number of top-level requests processed per second. In this demo however, we calculate throughput on 10 second time buckets instead of per second.

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW throughput AS
SELECT
	COUNT(*) as throughput,
	window_start as 'time'
FROM
	spans_tumble_10s
WHERE
	parentSpanId = ''
GROUP BY
	window_start;
```

### Operation Execution Time

Operation execution time measures how long each operation actually took, excluding time spent in child spans.

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW operation_execution_time as
SELECT
    s.name,
    SUM(
        s.elapsedTimeMillis -
        coalesce(
            select
                sum(elapsedTimeMillis)
                FROM spans k
                WHERE k.traceId = s.traceId
                AND k.parentSpanId = s.spanId,
            0
        )
    ) as elapsed
FROM spans s
GROUP BY s.name;
```

> ##### Explanation:

Reviewer: this doesn't have to be a title

# Extracting High-Level Metrics

> In the previous step, we pre-processed the data to enhance its usability. Next, we want to generate valuable insights from it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the previous step, we pre-processed the data to make it easier to analyze in SQL. Next, we want to generate valuable insights from it.
```
